README.md, before:

# WRapped

<div align="center">

  <img src="img/screenshot.png" alt="Logo" width="600">

</div>

## Description

This project is inspired by the yearly 'Spotify Wrapped', which is a summary of your listening habits over the past year. Wrapped does the same thing, but for Weekly reports a.k.a. WRs written by E-Mails. It is a simple script that parses your E-Mail inbox and outbox and generates statistics about your weekly reports. The statistic extraction is written in Rust, which creates a JSON file that is visualized using a web app.

## Getting Started

1. Install [Rust](https://rustup.rs), if you don't have already

2. Clone this repository and navigate into it:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/fischeti/WRapped.git
    cd WRapped
    ```
3. Modify the mail configuration `config.toml` as explained in the [Configuration](#configuration) section:

4. Run the app to generate the statistics:
    ```bash
    cargo run
    ```
    which should automatically open a browser window with the statistics.

## Configuration

The configuration file is written in [TOML](https://toml.io). To login to your E-Mail account, you need to provide the following information:

```toml
[mail.login]
# The IMAP server to connect to (you can find this information in your E-Mail client)
server = "my.mail.server"
# The port to connect to
port = 993
# (Optional) The username to use for authentication
# username = "my_username"
# (Optional) The password to use for authentication
# password = "my_password"
```
The configure which E-Mails to search for and fetch, you need to provide the following information:

```toml
[mail.fetch]
# The mailboxes to fetch from the WRs you sent, you can also run `cargo run mailboxes` to get a list of all mailboxes you have.
wr_mailboxes = ["Sent", "Sent Messages"]
# The mailboxes to fetch from the WR replies you received. Usually you only need to fetch from the INBOX. However, if you have a rule that moves the WR replies to a different mailbox, you need to add it here.
re_mailboxes = ["INBOX"]
# The pattern to match the WR subject you sent. This will match all subjects that contain the strings "WR" OR "Weekly Report". This means that your Subject needs to be consistent over the years. Currently, you can only match at most two patterns (this is a limitation of the IMAP search query).
pattern = ["WR", "Weekly Report"]
# From which mail address you sent the WRs
from = "my_username@my.mail.server"
# To which mail address you sent the WRs
to = "theboss@my.mail.server"
# The year to fetch the WRs from
year = 2023
```

Lastly, you have to configure a few things how the statistics are generated:

```toml
[stats]
# The number of holiday weeks you were not working. This includes holidays, sick days, etc.
num_holidays = 5
```

## How it works

The script works by connecting to your E-Mail account using IMAP. It then searches for all E-Mails that match the given criteria. For instance it creates an IMAP search query that looks like this:

```
FROM "my_username@my.mail.server" TO "theboss@my.mail.server" SUBJECT "WR" OR SUBJECT "Weekly Report" SINCE 01-Jan-2023 BEFORE 31-Dec-2023
```

which will return a sequence of E-Mail IDs. The script then fetches only the header (or `ENVELOPE` in IMAP terms) of each E-Mail, which contains information such as the date, the sender, the recipient, etc. The content of the mail is not fetched at all. The script then parses the date and sender information to create a list of WRs.

The replies are fetched in a similar way, but the other way around:

```
FROM "theboss@my.mail.server" TO "my_username@my.mail.server" SUBJECT "WR" OR SUBJECT "Weekly Report" SINCE 01-Jan-2023 BEFORE 31-Dec-2023
```

Each message contains a `IN-REPLY-TO` header, which contains the ID of the message it is replying to. The script then matches the replies to the WRs by comparing the `IN-REPLY-TO` header to the list of WRs.

Lastly, the script generates the statistics and writes them to a JSON file. The web app then reads the JSON file and visualizes the statistics.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

feat: Count the number of words in WRs (#8)

README.md, after:

# WRapped

<div align="center">

  <img src="img/screenshot.png" alt="Logo" width="600">

</div>

## Description

This project is inspired by the yearly 'Spotify Wrapped', which is a summary of your listening habits over the past year. Wrapped does the same thing, but for Weekly reports a.k.a. WRs written by E-Mails. It is a simple script that parses your E-Mail inbox and outbox and generates statistics about your weekly reports. The statistic extraction is written in Rust, which creates a JSON file that is visualized using a web app.

## Getting Started

1. Install [Rust](https://rustup.rs), if you don't have already

2. Clone this repository and navigate into it:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/fischeti/WRapped.git
    cd WRapped
    ```
3. Modify the mail configuration `config.toml` as explained in the [Configuration](#configuration) section:

4. Run the app to generate the statistics:
    ```bash
    cargo run
    ```
    which should automatically open a browser window with the statistics.

## Configuration

The configuration file is written in [TOML](https://toml.io). To login to your E-Mail account, you need to provide the following information:

```toml
[mail.login]
# The IMAP server to connect to (you can find this information in your E-Mail client)
server = "my.mail.server"
# The port to connect to
port = 993
```
The configure which E-Mails to search for and fetch, you need to provide the following information:

```toml
[mail.fetch]
# The mailboxes to fetch from the WRs you sent,
# you can also run `cargo run mailboxes` to get a list of all mailboxes you have.
wr_mailboxes = ["Sent", "Sent Messages"]
# The mailboxes to fetch from the WR replies you received.
# Usually you only need to fetch from the INBOX. However,
# if you have a rule that moves the WR replies to a different mailbox,
# you need to add it here.
re_mailboxes = ["INBOX"]
# The pattern to match the WR subject you sent.
# This will match all subjects that contain the strings "WR" OR "Weekly Report".
# This means that your Subject needs to be consistent over the years.
# Currently, you can only match at most two patterns (this is a limitation of the IMAP search query).
pattern = ["WR", "Weekly Report"]
# From which mail address you sent the WRs
from = "my_username@my.mail.server"
# To which mail address you sent the WRs
to = "theboss@my.mail.server"
# The year to fetch the WRs from
year = 2023
```

## How it works

The script works by connecting to your E-Mail account using IMAP. It then searches for all E-Mails that match the given criteria. For instance it creates an IMAP search query that looks like this:

```
FROM "my_username@my.mail.server" TO "theboss@my.mail.server" SUBJECT "WR" OR SUBJECT "Weekly Report" SINCE 01-Jan-2023 BEFORE 31-Dec-2023
```

which will return a sequence of E-Mail IDs. The script then fetches first the header (or `ENVELOPE` in IMAP terms) of each E-Mail, which contains information such as the date, the sender, the recipient, etc. In a second step, the content (or `BODY` in IMAP terms) is fetched and merged with the header to create a list of WRs.

The replies are fetched in a similar way, but the other way around:

```
FROM "theboss@my.mail.server" TO "my_username@my.mail.server" SUBJECT "WR" OR SUBJECT "Weekly Report" SINCE 01-Jan-2023 BEFORE 31-Dec-2023
```

Each message contains a `IN-REPLY-TO` header, which contains the ID of the message it is replying to. The script then matches the replies to the WRs by comparing the `IN-REPLY-TO` header to the list of WRs.

Lastly, the script generates the statistics and writes them to a JSON file. The web app then reads the JSON file and visualizes the statistics.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
